README.md, before:

# OpenSourceCoronavirusProjects
This is a directory and tech tree of collected open source research and technologies aimed at preventing the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic 
***********************************************************************************************************************************************************************
Disclaimers, Warning, and release of liability:
TREAT EVERYTHING DOCUMENTED AND DESIGNED IN THIS DIRECTORY AND OTHERS AS POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS, UNTESTED, AND WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY IT WILL WORK FOR THE DESIRED PURPOSE, OR SAFELY

DEVICES AND TECHNIQUES DOCUMENTED, RESEARCHED AND LINKED HERE CAN POTENTIALLY HURT AND KILL YOU, OR THEY CAN FAIL TO WORK EXPOSING YOU OR OTHERS TO INFECTION TO COVID-19 OR OTHER RELATED, OR UNRELATED ILLNESSES. 

NOTHING LISTED HERE IS FDA TESTED

THIS INFORMATION IS PROVIDED SOLELY FOR THE COLLABORATION OF THE WORLD'S COMMUNITY TO FIGHT THE GREATER EFFECTS OF THE CORONAVIRUS PANDEMIC

DO NOT MAKE AND DISTRIBUTE EQUIPMENT IF YOU ARE ILL

PLEASE DO NOT GET FRUSTRATED WORKING WITH PEOPLE, WE'RE ALL TRYING TO HELP, THIS IS A CRISIS, AND WE STILL HAVE TO TAKE CARE OF OUR PERSONAL OBLIGATIONS TOO
***********************************************************************************************************************************************************************

Isn't COVID-19 just like the flu?
No, it's not.
https://www.vox.com/science-and-health/2020/3/13/21176735/covid-19-coronavirus-worse-than-flu-comparison

There are at least two known strains of it.

Aerosol for 3 hours

Copper for 4 hours

https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/xgqkyw/copper-destroys-viruses-and-bacteria-why-isnt-it-everywhere

Cardboard for 24 hours

Stainless steel for 72 hours

./plasticssterilization-compatibility-chart-from-is-med-specialties.pdf


# Symptoms:
https://www.coronavirus.gov/

NIH:
https://www.nih.gov/health-information/coronavirus

WHO

CDC
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/symptoms-testing/symptoms.html

Who is most at risk:
Immune compromised people, auto-immune, HIV
Pregnant women
Older people
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/specific-groups/high-risk-complications.html


"Avoid close contact with anyone showing symptoms of respiratory illness such as coughing and sneezing."


Why are we making potentially dangerous and untested opensource medical equipment?
Because the rate of infection is so high, there's projections millions more will catch the virus, and the amount of cases will overwhelm the healthcare system to the point where some cases will go untreated which can lead to higher rates of mortality. There's already been a US shortage of N95 masks for the last week, the US is just now seeing outbreaks of cases and if hospital staff do not have supplies like masks to protect themselves then they too can be incapacitated by the virus, leading to higher mortality.

https://www.technologyreview.com/s/615375/what-is-herd-immunity-and-can-it-stop-the-coronavirus/?fbclid=IwAR3LRLNSKCavqpa6UXkoTFhGyqImoom_YE9jLRzb_qNSUMuBc_8eRLL_XP0

# Inspiration:
https://www.who.int/news-room/detail/03-03-2020-shortage-of-personal-protective-equipment-endangering-health-workers-worldwide

https://hackaday.com/2020/03/12/ultimate-medical-hackathon-how-fast-can-we-design-and-deploy-an-open-source-ventilator/?fbclid=IwAR2rnSc4Yhfd2iLCZSQ0erHf8-PLsuuL3I0NMZvJagOX9FEcs_jMts-FzME

https://www.nbcboston.com/news/coronavirus/mgh-desperately-needs-supplies-president-says/2094292/

https://app.jogl.io/project/121?fbclid=IwAR2LzTAlirPDtjg1XDkTOVjQnHhLvI_BoxQMF2MtK6MTWD3bbK-AwrJoKeU

https://docs.google.com/document/d/16ueR28p-oZb_uPKXFzuxK-X62rgYXlGETNOLitoSf6s/edit

https://www.livescience.com/open-source-medical-supplies-coronavirus.html

https://www.freethink.com/articles/coronavirus-supplies

# Workflow

Research/proposal -> Design -> Print/Assemble -> Test -> Review with medical experts -> use 

Discussion -> CAD -> 3D printer -> Equipment Evaluator -> Medical expert -> Patient

# Challenges/Funding:
https://twitter.com/CoVentChallenge

# Directory
Keep this list to the best example for each category

Tracking Data, forecasting:
https://healthweather.us/

https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/18/health/coronavirus-fever-thermometers.html

# OpenSource Software:
John Hopkins Coronavirus COVID-19 tracker:
https://gisanddata.maps.arcgis.com/apps/opsdashboard/index.html#/bda7594740fd40299423467b48e9ecf6


AI/FLIR: detect people at airports, etc. with fevers from a distance

https://create.arduino.cc/projecthub/dasdata/corofence-thermal-detector-f4436f?ref=platform&ref_id=424_trending___&offset=0

https://www.instructables.com/id/Coronavirus-Detector/

AI/CT: researchers were able to use CT scans and AI to diagnose COVID-19 cases
https://github.com/ieee8023/covid-chestxray-dataset

Coronavirus Open Research Dataset
https://www.kaggle.com/allen-institute-for-ai/CORD-19-research-challenge?fbclid=IwAR3yCv3gct7dF8dijcXWorMs5P3RMyOI3rQVj5JEykcY9uALWX8WdJstykU

************************************************************************************************************

# OpenSource Business
Close all non-essential businesses, have reduced staff for others
close all dine-in restaraunts
Have a senior hour at the beginning of the day for seniors 50+ store is disinfected in the morning, seniors are most vulnerable
Practice social distancing
No gatherings of 25 or more people

# OpenSource Chemistry
"Combine in a bowl:
⅔-cup rubbing alcohol (99% isopropyl alcohol)
⅓-cup aloe vera gel.
Stir. Decant into a clean soap or pump bottle."
Source: https://www.foxnews.com/health/coronavirus-panic-buying-diy-hand-sanitizer-avoid-mixing-ingredients

************************************************************************************************************

# OpenSource Hardware

SAFE MATERIALS:
Copper3D antibacterial PLA?
PLA?
Nylon?
ABS?
Resin?
Stainless Steel?

UN-SAFE MATERIALS:
PVC?

see the file "plastics sterilization compatibility":
http://www.industrialspec.com/images/files/plastics-sterilization-compatibility-chart-from-is-med-specialties.pdf?fbclid=IwAR3Can9EYXjL-_oMnYxT7KGrIeQodONga45pCxxuXz3qbUVUsg0O-tZICeU

# Tools

Fusion 360 Mechanical CAD for part design:
https://www.autodesk.com/campaigns/fusion-360-for-hobbyists

Basic 3D printer:
https://www.amazon.com/Monoprice-MP10-Printer-Removable-Accessible/dp/B07MK5W8M7

Basic Microscope:


http://Thingiverse.com

http://Grabcad.com


# Gadgets

Doorbell fever detector:
https://create.arduino.cc/projecthub/roni-bandini/coronavirus-doorbell-114b3f?ref=platform&ref_id=424_trending___&offset=3

Automatic hand sanitizer:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_LcTiuzIFc8

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qulcfxe_04Q

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BoJ3QUGUA6w


Hand wash time counter:
https://github.com/dhennessy/WashTimer

Sugar cane to hand sanitizer:
https://wikifactory.com/@thanhmeye/ethanol-still

Using drones and robots:
https://www.forbes.com/sites/bernardmarr/2020/03/18/how-robots-and-drones-are-helping-to-fight-coronavirus/

Oxygen Analyzer
https://github.com/jboneng/OpenSourceOxygenAnalyzer

Door grabber
https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:4192643

Bidet as toilet paper alternative
https://www.youmagine.com/designs/3d-bidet-by-laproto-mx

# Medical Supplies

Test Supplies
https://foundry.bio/coronavirus-covid-19/

Surgical masks

Protective glasses/goggles 

Nitrile gloves

Head covers

Face shields

Disinfectant wipes

Shoe Coverings

Hospital Beds
https://imgur.com/t/coronavirus/reZE7AN

Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
N95 masks offer the best protection, but they are in short supply, surgical masks can be used, but do not offer the same protection as a N95 mask

N95 substitutes:
https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:4225667/files

https://copper3d.com/hackthepandemic/

https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:3454725

https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:4141338

https://blog.arduino.cc/2020/03/17/designing-a-low-cost-open-source-ventilator-with-arduino/

https://smartairfilters.com/en/blog/best-materials-make-diy-face-mask-virus/

https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:4219678

https://blogs.cdc.gov/niosh-science-blog/2009/10/14/n95/

https://diymask.site/

https://grabcad.com/library/disposable-mask-machine-1

https://grabcad.com/library/fully-automatic-n95-mask-machine-2

Coffee filter, blue painters tape mask
https://youtu.be/qIiG56I_Xbc

Which masks actual protect against coronavirus?
http://emag.medicalexpo.com/which-masks-actually-protect-against-coronavirus/

N95 Recycling:

https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/ppe-strategy/face-masks.html

https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/3QYVWO4kj5qwuSHnhcM9uQ?fbclid=IwAR2mEmjTaswAtNhXEI4hLsekkLxx7oObUl_Y36TqsbvFGSiIMXvg2A_nv5I

Supposedly you can wash them with bleach in water up to 40 times to renew them, this is untested and unverified

Response to N95 Recycling: "Cheuk Kwong Ng: Don't clean and sterilize the one-time disposable 3-layer surgical mask. Any attempt to clean and steralize (streaming, UV, alcohol / bleach / soap solution) the one-time disposable 3-layer surgical mask will destroy the fibre of 3 layers as well as wear off the electrostatic attraction in the middle layer which is one of the major filteration principle of mask in addition to the physical barrier.
You can use a one-time 3-layer disposable surgical mask. If u can't get one, make a reusable cloth mask (http://diymask.site) with a piece of kitchen paper which can achieve N70 level which is protective enough for daily use"

Positive Pressure Suit:
https://imgur.com/gallery/UD7PEo0

Surgical face  mask substitutes:

https://making.engr.wisc.edu/shield/

https://www.delve.com/insights/face-shield-designs-to-fill-the-gap

https://blog.prusaprinters.org/from-design-to-mass-3d-printing-of-medical-shields-in-three-days/

https://grabcad.com/library/coronavirus-flu-reusable-mask-1

https://youtu.be/pP7z3iw76GA

Respirators/Lifesupport:

State of open source ventilators as of 3/21/2020:
https://medium.com/@RobertLeeRead/the-state-of-open-source-ventilator-projects-as-of-march-21st-1f36bfb608b4

https://gitlab.com/TrevorSmale/OSV-OpenLung

Open Source Ambubag, MIT E-Vent:
https://e-vent.mit.edu/

https://www.instructables.com/id/The-Pandemic-Ventilator/

https://www.fastcompany.com/1661942/mit-students-invent-100-ventilator-for-disaster-zones

https://oxygen.protofy.xyz/

https://www.deaconess.com/SpecialPages/How-to-make-a-Face-Mask

https://imgur.com/gallery/kdPQV1n

https://www.mpo-mag.com/content-microsite/mpo_covid-19/2020-03-20/oxford-and-kings-developing-prototype-for-rapidly-deployable-ventilator

https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/specification-for-ventilators-to-be-used-in-uk-hospitals-during-the-coronavirus-covid-19-outbreak

https://rescueventilation.com/

AmbuBag BVM V2
https://grabcad.com/library/ambu-bvm-2-1

AmbuBag BVM V3
https://grabcad.com/library/ambu-bvm-3-1

Ventilator Manifold:
https://scholarworks.boisestate.edu/lib_maker/4/

Cuirass Ventilator

http://www.hayekmedical.com/about-bcv

https://youtu.be/pvrUQCMa3a8

Ventilator repair:
https://www.ifixit.com/Device/Ventilator

Valves

https://grabcad.com/library/respirator-free-reanimation-venturi-s-valve-1

PEEP valve
https://youtu.be/HEfCRcew_pk

# Prototype Testing
Several different independent people should test the latest version of an individual design before bringing a prototype to a medical expert to review it
If a medical expert says it provides utility then it should be reviewed by a legal expert and an engineer
then beyond that if a design satisfies all the above then people could potentially mass produce the solution using 3D printers or whatever else

how to test masks:
https://www.xamax.co.uk/blog/how-to-respirator-face-fit-test-guide.html


http://www.frankshospitalworkshop.com/

# Communication
What good are open source designs when all the results and development are hidden behind logins in private groups? 

Google docs list of groups:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1PmVIADK94Hmug3wRQXi-K94UrXYsZtSFXpRGwCENoaM/edit

N95 Requests:
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfuuLpPZQwWX91U3x55wVWdNrfk-zaKPXdBsI0PITeI7BYkXA/viewform

Slack channel
https://www.helpfulengineering.org/

https://www.mantis3dprinter.com/help

Open Air
https://projectopenair.nl/het-project/

Facebook is NOT ideal
https://www.facebook.com/groups/opensourcecovid19medicalsupplies/

https://ppelink.wordpress.com/

https://www.canada.ca/en/services/business/maintaingrowimprovebusiness/manufacturers-needed.html

https://www.gov.uk/government/news/production-and-supply-of-ventilators-and-ventilator-components

https://www.coronavirusmakers.org/index.php/es/

HP
https://enable.hp.com/us-en-3dprint-COVID-19-containment-applications

Formlabs
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSe015Ylohgm7hE5lRsekdK01_OqElYeSAzqyHx7HbOmrJ_MjQ/viewform

https://findthemasks.com/

https://getusppe.org/

http://thenocturnists.com/tell-your-story

use hashtags like #COVID19 or #Coronavirus when you publish designs, use descriptive keywords so other developers can find your designs.

# NEEDS:
3D print operators
Scientists
Engineers
Equipment evaluators
Legal Advisors
Medical Advisors
Project Managers
Hospital Contacts/Doctors

Manufacturing:
-------------------
https://ideea.io/3ps/covid-19

http://www.shapeways.com/covid19/

3dhubs

Prusa

Markforged
https://markforged.com/materials/copper/


# Potential Designs, research directions:
Ultraviolet mask - supposedly a bad idea because UV lights create ozone which is bad for lungs

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4699414/

AC airfilter backpack

Ultrasonic deactivation
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23500728

Salt Filter Mask
https://robots-everywhere.com/re_wiki/pub/web/Cookbook.SaltMask.html

Commit message:

Added info on treatment, masks, data

README.md, after:

# OpenSourceCoronavirusProjects
This is a directory and tech tree of collected open source research and technologies aimed at preventing the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic 
***********************************************************************************************************************************************************************
Disclaimers, Warning, and release of liability:
TREAT EVERYTHING DOCUMENTED AND DESIGNED IN THIS DIRECTORY AND OTHERS AS POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS, UNTESTED, AND WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY IT WILL WORK FOR THE DESIRED PURPOSE, OR SAFELY

DEVICES AND TECHNIQUES DOCUMENTED, RESEARCHED AND LINKED HERE CAN POTENTIALLY HURT AND KILL YOU, OR THEY CAN FAIL TO WORK EXPOSING YOU OR OTHERS TO INFECTION TO COVID-19 OR OTHER RELATED, OR UNRELATED ILLNESSES. 

NOTHING LISTED HERE IS FDA TESTED

THIS INFORMATION IS PROVIDED SOLELY FOR THE COLLABORATION OF THE WORLD'S COMMUNITY TO FIGHT THE GREATER EFFECTS OF THE CORONAVIRUS PANDEMIC

DO NOT MAKE AND DISTRIBUTE EQUIPMENT IF YOU ARE ILL

PLEASE DO NOT GET FRUSTRATED WORKING WITH PEOPLE, WE'RE ALL TRYING TO HELP, THIS IS A CRISIS, AND WE STILL HAVE TO TAKE CARE OF OUR PERSONAL OBLIGATIONS TOO
***********************************************************************************************************************************************************************

Isn't COVID-19 just like the flu?
No, it's not.
https://www.vox.com/science-and-health/2020/3/13/21176735/covid-19-coronavirus-worse-than-flu-comparison

There are at least two known strains of it.

Aerosol for 3 hours

Copper for 4 hours

https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/xgqkyw/copper-destroys-viruses-and-bacteria-why-isnt-it-everywhere

Cardboard for 24 hours

Stainless steel for 72 hours

./plasticssterilization-compatibility-chart-from-is-med-specialties.pdf


# Symptoms:
https://www.coronavirus.gov/

NIH:
https://www.nih.gov/health-information/coronavirus

WHO

CDC
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/symptoms-testing/symptoms.html

Who is most at risk:
Immune compromised people, auto-immune, HIV
Pregnant women
Older people
https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/specific-groups/high-risk-complications.html

"Avoid close contact with anyone showing symptoms of respiratory illness such as coughing and sneezing."

Why are we making potentially dangerous and untested opensource medical equipment?
Because the rate of infection is so high, there's projections millions more will catch the virus, and the amount of cases will overwhelm the healthcare system to the point where some cases will go untreated which can lead to higher rates of mortality. There's already been a US shortage of N95 masks for the last week, the US is just now seeing outbreaks of cases and if hospital staff do not have supplies like masks to protect themselves then they too can be incapacitated by the virus, leading to higher mortality.

https://www.technologyreview.com/s/615375/what-is-herd-immunity-and-can-it-stop-the-coronavirus/?fbclid=IwAR3LRLNSKCavqpa6UXkoTFhGyqImoom_YE9jLRzb_qNSUMuBc_8eRLL_XP0

# Inspiration:
https://www.who.int/news-room/detail/03-03-2020-shortage-of-personal-protective-equipment-endangering-health-workers-worldwide

https://hackaday.com/2020/03/12/ultimate-medical-hackathon-how-fast-can-we-design-and-deploy-an-open-source-ventilator/

https://www.hackster.io/news/open-source-ventilator-openlung-projects-aim-to-address-the-covid-19-ventilator-shortfall-c7a5ee2f8e58

https://www.nbcboston.com/news/coronavirus/mgh-desperately-needs-supplies-president-says/2094292/

https://app.jogl.io/project/121?fbclid=IwAR2LzTAlirPDtjg1XDkTOVjQnHhLvI_BoxQMF2MtK6MTWD3bbK-AwrJoKeU

https://docs.google.com/document/d/16ueR28p-oZb_uPKXFzuxK-X62rgYXlGETNOLitoSf6s/edit

https://www.livescience.com/open-source-medical-supplies-coronavirus.html

https://www.freethink.com/articles/coronavirus-supplies

# Workflow

Research/proposal -> Design -> Print/Assemble -> Test -> Review with medical experts -> use 

Discussion -> CAD -> 3D printer -> Equipment Evaluator -> Medical expert -> Patient

# Challenges/Funding:
https://twitter.com/CoVentChallenge

# Directory
Keep this list to the best example for each category

Tracking Data, forecasting:
https://healthweather.us/

https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/18/health/coronavirus-fever-thermometers.html

# OpenSource Software:
John Hopkins Coronavirus COVID-19 tracker:
https://gisanddata.maps.arcgis.com/apps/opsdashboard/index.html#/bda7594740fd40299423467b48e9ecf6


AI/FLIR: detect people at airports, etc. with fevers from a distance

https://create.arduino.cc/projecthub/dasdata/corofence-thermal-detector-f4436f?ref=platform&ref_id=424_trending___&offset=0

https://www.instructables.com/id/Coronavirus-Detector/

AI/CT: researchers were able to use CT scans and AI to diagnose COVID-19 cases
https://github.com/ieee8023/covid-chestxray-dataset

https://interestingengineering.com/ct-scans-and-x-rays-display-the-damage-to-the-lungs-of-covid-19-patients

Coronavirus Open Research Dataset
https://www.kaggle.com/allen-institute-for-ai/CORD-19-research-challenge?fbclid=IwAR3yCv3gct7dF8dijcXWorMs5P3RMyOI3rQVj5JEykcY9uALWX8WdJstykU

************************************************************************************************************

# OpenSource Business
Close all non-essential businesses, have reduced staff for others
close all dine-in restaraunts
Have a senior hour at the beginning of the day for seniors 50+ store is disinfected in the morning, seniors are most vulnerable
Practice social distancing
No gatherings of 25 or more people

# OpenSource Chemistry
"Combine in a bowl:
⅔-cup rubbing alcohol (99% isopropyl alcohol)
⅓-cup aloe vera gel.
Stir. Decant into a clean soap or pump bottle."
Source: https://www.foxnews.com/health/coronavirus-panic-buying-diy-hand-sanitizer-avoid-mixing-ingredients

************************************************************************************************************

# OpenSource Hardware

SAFE MATERIALS:
Copper3D antibacterial PLA?
PLA?
Nylon?
ABS?
Resin?
Stainless Steel?

UN-SAFE MATERIALS:
PVC?

see the file "plastics sterilization compatibility":
http://www.industrialspec.com/images/files/plastics-sterilization-compatibility-chart-from-is-med-specialties.pdf?fbclid=IwAR3Can9EYXjL-_oMnYxT7KGrIeQodONga45pCxxuXz3qbUVUsg0O-tZICeU

# Tools

Fusion 360 Mechanical CAD for part design:
https://www.autodesk.com/campaigns/fusion-360-for-hobbyists

Basic 3D printer:
https://www.amazon.com/Monoprice-MP10-Printer-Removable-Accessible/dp/B07MK5W8M7

Basic Microscope:


http://Thingiverse.com

http://Grabcad.com


# Gadgets

Doorbell fever detector:
https://create.arduino.cc/projecthub/roni-bandini/coronavirus-doorbell-114b3f?ref=platform&ref_id=424_trending___&offset=3

Automatic hand sanitizer:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_LcTiuzIFc8

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qulcfxe_04Q

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BoJ3QUGUA6w


Hand wash time counter:
https://github.com/dhennessy/WashTimer

Sugar cane to hand sanitizer:
https://wikifactory.com/@thanhmeye/ethanol-still

Using drones and robots:
https://www.forbes.com/sites/bernardmarr/2020/03/18/how-robots-and-drones-are-helping-to-fight-coronavirus/

Oxygen Analyzer
https://github.com/jboneng/OpenSourceOxygenAnalyzer

Door grabber
https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:4192643

Bidet as toilet paper alternative
https://www.youmagine.com/designs/3d-bidet-by-laproto-mx

# Medical Supplies

Test Supplies
https://foundry.bio/coronavirus-covid-19/

Surgical masks

Protective glasses/goggles 

Nitrile gloves

Head covers

Face shields

Disinfectant wipes

Shoe Coverings

Hospital Beds
https://imgur.com/t/coronavirus/reZE7AN

Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
N95 masks offer the best protection, but they are in short supply, surgical masks can be used, but do not offer the same protection as a N95 mask

N95 substitutes:
https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:4225667/files

https://copper3d.com/hackthepandemic/

https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:3454725

https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:4141338

https://blog.arduino.cc/2020/03/17/designing-a-low-cost-open-source-ventilator-with-arduino/

https://smartairfilters.com/en/blog/best-materials-make-diy-face-mask-virus/

https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:4219678

https://blogs.cdc.gov/niosh-science-blog/2009/10/14/n95/

https://diymask.site/

https://grabcad.com/library/disposable-mask-machine-1

https://grabcad.com/library/fully-automatic-n95-mask-machine-2

Coffee filter, blue painters tape mask
https://youtu.be/qIiG56I_Xbc

Which masks actual protect against coronavirus?
http://emag.medicalexpo.com/which-masks-actually-protect-against-coronavirus/

N95 Recycling:

https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/ppe-strategy/face-masks.html

https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/3QYVWO4kj5qwuSHnhcM9uQ

Supposedly you can wash them with bleach in water up to 40 times to renew them, this is untested and unverified
Also potentially use an oven to autoclave infected masks, or hydrogen peroxide, or microwave oven, all untested and unverified

https://www.mbs.news/a/2020/03/hydrogen-peroxide-gives-mouth-mask-second-round.html

Response to N95 Recycling: "Cheuk Kwong Ng: Don't clean and sterilize the one-time disposable 3-layer surgical mask. Any attempt to clean and steralize (streaming, UV, alcohol / bleach / soap solution) the one-time disposable 3-layer surgical mask will destroy the fibre of 3 layers as well as wear off the electrostatic attraction in the middle layer which is one of the major filteration principle of mask in addition to the physical barrier.
You can use a one-time 3-layer disposable surgical mask. If u can't get one, make a reusable cloth mask (http://diymask.site) with a piece of kitchen paper which can achieve N70 level which is protective enough for daily use"

Positive Pressure Suit:
https://imgur.com/gallery/UD7PEo0

Surgical face  mask substitutes:

https://making.engr.wisc.edu/shield/

https://www.delve.com/insights/face-shield-designs-to-fill-the-gap

https://blog.prusaprinters.org/from-design-to-mass-3d-printing-of-medical-shields-in-three-days/

https://grabcad.com/library/coronavirus-flu-reusable-mask-1

https://youtu.be/pP7z3iw76GA

Respirators/Lifesupport:

State of open source ventilators as of 3/21/2020:
https://medium.com/@RobertLeeRead/the-state-of-open-source-ventilator-projects-as-of-march-21st-1f36bfb608b4

https://gitlab.com/TrevorSmale/OSV-OpenLung

https://www.ventilaid.org/

Open Source Ambubag, MIT E-Vent:
https://e-vent.mit.edu/

https://www.instructables.com/id/The-Pandemic-Ventilator/

https://www.fastcompany.com/1661942/mit-students-invent-100-ventilator-for-disaster-zones

https://oxygen.protofy.xyz/

https://www.deaconess.com/SpecialPages/How-to-make-a-Face-Mask

https://imgur.com/gallery/kdPQV1n

https://www.mpo-mag.com/content-microsite/mpo_covid-19/2020-03-20/oxford-and-kings-developing-prototype-for-rapidly-deployable-ventilator

https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/specification-for-ventilators-to-be-used-in-uk-hospitals-during-the-coronavirus-covid-19-outbreak

https://rescueventilation.com/

AmbuBag BVM V2
https://grabcad.com/library/ambu-bvm-2-1

AmbuBag BVM V3
https://grabcad.com/library/ambu-bvm-3-1

Ventilator Manifold:
https://scholarworks.boisestate.edu/lib_maker/4/

Cuirass Ventilator

http://www.hayekmedical.com/about-bcv

https://youtu.be/pvrUQCMa3a8

Ventilator repair:
https://www.ifixit.com/Device/Ventilator

Ventilator Splitters

http://ventsplitter.org/

Valves

https://grabcad.com/library/respirator-free-reanimation-venturi-s-valve-1

PEEP valve
https://youtu.be/HEfCRcew_pk

# Prototype Testing
Several different independent people should test the latest version of an individual design before bringing a prototype to a medical expert to review it
If a medical expert says it provides utility then it should be reviewed by a legal expert and an engineer
then beyond that if a design satisfies all the above then people could potentially mass produce the solution using 3D printers or whatever else

how to test masks:
https://www.xamax.co.uk/blog/how-to-respirator-face-fit-test-guide.html


http://www.frankshospitalworkshop.com/

# Communication
What good are open source designs when all the results and development are hidden behind logins in private groups? 

Google docs list of groups:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1PmVIADK94Hmug3wRQXi-K94UrXYsZtSFXpRGwCENoaM/edit

N95 Requests:
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfuuLpPZQwWX91U3x55wVWdNrfk-zaKPXdBsI0PITeI7BYkXA/viewform

Slack channel
https://www.helpfulengineering.org/

https://www.mantis3dprinter.com/help

Open Air
https://projectopenair.nl/het-project/

Facebook is NOT ideal
https://www.facebook.com/groups/opensourcecovid19medicalsupplies/

https://ppelink.wordpress.com/

https://www.canada.ca/en/services/business/maintaingrowimprovebusiness/manufacturers-needed.html

https://www.gov.uk/government/news/production-and-supply-of-ventilators-and-ventilator-components

https://www.coronavirusmakers.org/index.php/es/

HP
https://enable.hp.com/us-en-3dprint-COVID-19-containment-applications

Formlabs
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSe015Ylohgm7hE5lRsekdK01_OqElYeSAzqyHx7HbOmrJ_MjQ/viewform

https://findthemasks.com/

https://getusppe.org/

http://thenocturnists.com/tell-your-story

use hashtags like #COVID19 or #Coronavirus when you publish designs, use descriptive keywords so other developers can find your designs.

# NEEDS:
3D print operators
Scientists
Engineers
Equipment evaluators
Legal Advisors
Medical Advisors
Project Managers
Hospital Contacts/Doctors

Manufacturing:
-------------------
https://ideea.io/3ps/covid-19

http://www.shapeways.com/covid19/

3dhubs

Prusa

Markforged
https://markforged.com/materials/copper/


# Potential Designs, research directions:
Ultraviolet mask - supposedly a bad idea because UV lights create ozone which is bad for lungs

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4699414/

AC airfilter backpack

Ultrasonic deactivation
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23500728

Salt Filter Mask
https://robots-everywhere.com/re_wiki/pub/web/Cookbook.SaltMask.html
